More than 2 Cores (#63)
r-devel/cran-cookbook: website/code_issues.qmd

CRAN recommends using `suppressWarnings()`, which disables warnings only for the specific expression it's applied to, rather than globally.

-----------------------------------------

# Using more than 2 Cores

## Problem

You are using more than 2 CPU cores in your examples, vignettes, tests or during installation. 

## Solution

Make sure that you set the maximum number of cores used to 2 in examples, vignettes or tests. 
During installation, many modern build systems use the `-j` flag. 

> <!-- This was recommended by 'aitap' in a discussion on GitHub -->

Reviewer: Can you also add @aitap to the contributors section of the [preface.qmd](https://github.com/r-devel/cran-cookbook/blob/main/preface.qmd#L37)?

Author: Sure! I will do that 😄

### Details

::: {.callout-note title="CRAN Review Communication" appearance="simple" icon=false collapse=true}

Please ensure that you do not use more than 2 cores in your examples, vignettes, etc.

:::

> CRAN checks run on big, multi-core computers, running many `R CMD check` processes in parallel. Every process is allowed to use a maximum of two CPU cores to exercise parallel code in examples and unit tests. When using more than 2 cores, your package will get a NOTE from CRAN checks, saying that it took more CPU time than elapsed time.

Reviewer: For consistency can you update the 'two CPU cores' to '2 CPU cores' to match the rest of the recipe?

::: {.callout-note title="CRAN NOTE" icon=false}

Check: whether package can be installed, Result: NOTE\
&emsp; Installation took CPU time 6.9 times elapsed time\
\
Check: examples, Result: NOTE\
&emsp; Examples with CPU time > 2.5 times elapsed time
  
:::

> The automatic tests will only produce a NOTE when more than 2 cores are used in examples, vignettes, tests or the installation. The possibility to set the amount of cores should be given in any function and the default is ideally set to less than 2 cores.

Reviewer: Nit wording update: 

```suggestion
Automatic tests will generate a NOTE if more than 2 cores are used in examples, vignettes, tests, or during installation. It’s best to provide an option for setting the number of cores in any function, with the default ideally set to fewer than 2 cores.
```
